<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
  <id>2</id>
  <title>Combined summary - proposal for Lightning Network improvement proposals</title>
  <updated>2023-06-02T03:41:20.808740+00:00</updated>
  <author>
    <name>René Pickhardt 2018-07-22 19:56:53</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>René Pickhardt 2018-07-22 13:45:21</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Olaoluwa Osuntokun 2018-07-22 18:59:09</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Olaoluwa Osuntokun 2018-07-22 20:32:02</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Olaoluwa Osuntokun 2018-07-23 19:41:36</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Luke Dashjr 2018-07-22 18:30:21</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Mr Hodlen 2018-07-23 19:15:28</name>
  </author>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001367_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001364_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001366_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001368_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001370_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001365_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="lightning-dev/July_2018/001369_proposal-for-Lightning-Network-improvement-proposals.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <generator uri="https://lkiesow.github.io/python-feedgen" version="0.9.0">python-feedgen</generator>
  <entry>
    <id>2</id>
    <title>Combined summary - proposal for Lightning Network improvement proposals</title>
    <updated>2023-06-02T03:41:20.808740+00:00</updated>
    <link href="https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2018-July/001367.html" rel="alternate"/>
    <summary>René Pickhardt, a contributor to the Lightning Network, proposed the creation of Lightning Network Improvement Proposals (LIPs) similar to Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs). The purpose of LIPs would be to collect future enhancements for BOLT1.1, which currently have many ideas distributed within the community and no central place to collect them. Potential LIPs include watchtowers, autopilot, AMP, splicing, routing protocols, broadcasting past routing statistics, eltoo, and more. René suggested that LIPs should be placed in a new repository called lips within the github.com/lightning account or within the lightning rfc repo. However, another member of the community pointed out that BOLTs already function as improvement proposals and are historically proposed initially as issues or PRs when ultimately accepted. The email thread discusses various issues surrounding the process of creating, modifying, and drafting BOLT documents. One concern raised is the assignment of values for types and feature bits. To reduce collisions in the wild, it was suggested to announce on the list before running an experiment with a new feature bit and use a unique identifier for the feature, such as a hash of the feature name. A rough draft of the idea for experimental features protocol has been shared to address these concerns and enable testing protocol features that are not necessarily intended to become standard BOLTs. This protocol includes Lightning base protocol messages, general experiment messages, and an overview. René Pickhardt created a draft for LIP-0001, describing the process and influenced by BIP-0002. He volunteered to work on a LIP for Splicing, and other potential LIPs could include Watchtowers, Autopilot, AMP, Routing Protocols, Broadcasting past Routing statistics, eltoo, and more. However, there was no need for a separate repository for lightning since lightning is already covered by BIPs. Existing BOLTs should be submitted to the BIPs repository too.In addition, there is a suggestion to start having LIPs placed on the github.com/lightning account in a repo called lips, which would fill the gap between distributed ideas within the community and a centralized place to collect future enhancements for BOLT1.1. The email thread also discusses TODO's including defining gossip/query messages related to nodes/channels that support features by experiment_hash_name. Overall, the email thread discusses various concerns and proposals for improving the process of creating/modifying/drafting BOLT documents, including addressing collisions in feature bit assignments, proposing an experimental features protocol, and suggesting a central repository for collecting future enhancements for BOLT 1.1.</summary>
    <published>2018-07-22T19:56:53+00:00</published>
  </entry>
</feed>
