<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
  <id>1</id>
  <title>Roadmap/schedules</title>
  <updated>2023-05-12T04:55:30.569852+00:00</updated>
  <author>
    <name>Pieter Wuille</name>
  </author>
  <generator uri="https://lkiesow.github.io/python-feedgen" version="0.9.0">python-feedgen</generator>
  <entry>
    <id>1</id>
    <title>Roadmap/schedules</title>
    <updated>2023-05-12T04:55:30.569852+00:00</updated>
    <link href="https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2011-August/000339.html" rel="alternate"/>
    <summary>In this email thread, Gavin Andresen lists the issues on his priority list for the next few months. One of the issues is a chronic problem with new code causing CRITICAL_SECTION deadlocks (#453). Sipa proposes two solutions to solve this issue. The first solution is to rewrite everything into a single-threaded Bitcoin library that processes events in finite time without any separate threads. This would be a serious rewrite and could potentially limit growth. The second solution is a careful checking and rework of the locking system. Sipa suggests a system with one lock for the node-handling code, one lock for the wallet-handling code, and one lock for network-handling code, which would include functions that only need read-only access. Sipa also suggests moving towards reader-writer locks (boost's shared_mutex), which would require all inspector functions to be wrapped in a lock_shared/unlock_shared block, all mutator functions to be wrapped in a lock_upgrade/unlock_upgrade block, and data structure modification code to be wrapped in an unlock_upgrade_and_lock/unlock_and_lock_upgrade block. Another issue on Gavin's priority list is to move from wxWidgets to Qt for the GUI. Additionally, he wants to un-hardcode fee handling, and Sipa has proposed a draft for a reworked fee system but hasn't had the time to implement it yet.</summary>
    <published>2011-08-10T18:57:53+00:00</published>
  </entry>
</feed>
