<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<feed xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
  <id>2</id>
  <title>Combined summary - Change to multiple executables?</title>
  <updated>2023-05-15T18:58:39.496041+00:00</updated>
  <author>
    <name>Pieter Wuille 2011-08-11 13:50:54</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Pieter Wuille 2011-08-11 13:08:45</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Pieter Wuille 2011-08-10 10:43:36</name>
  </author>
  <author>
    <name>Matt Corallo 2011-08-10 10:14:49</name>
  </author>
  <link href="Aug_2011/000358_Change-to-multiple-executables-.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="Aug_2011/000357_Change-to-multiple-executables-.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="Aug_2011/000331_Change-to-multiple-executables-.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <link href="Aug_2011/000329_Change-to-multiple-executables-.xml" rel="alternate"/>
  <generator uri="https://lkiesow.github.io/python-feedgen" version="0.9.0">python-feedgen</generator>
  <entry>
    <id>2</id>
    <title>Combined summary - Change to multiple executables?</title>
    <updated>2023-05-15T18:58:39.496041+00:00</updated>
    <link href="https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2011-August/000358.html" rel="alternate"/>
    <summary>In August 2011, there were discussions about the mainline client of Bitcoin and its single executable function. John Smith proposed a split into three separate executables: bitcoin daemon, bitcoin GUI executable, and bitcoin RPC command line. Pieter offered some reformulations and suggested that the GUI and RPC should not be split, but instead made optional for GUI users. Matt Corallo agreed with the idea of splitting up the source into separate library-ish components but disagreed on the idea of creating more executables. He suggested that if anyone wanted to distribute bitcoin-qt built off of bitcoind, they should pull-request it. The discussions touched upon issues such as the confusion of double-functioning as an RPC call and whether or not backward incompatible changes to the protocol would be worth the hassle. Finally, Pieter suggested creating a dev branch to make progress on internal changes.</summary>
    <published>2011-08-11T13:50:54+00:00</published>
  </entry>
</feed>
